# Store Owner :: Shopify

Documentation relating to setting up products on the store.

## Container Boxes

### Essential Shopify Product Settings For Container Boxes

#### Product Type

These are the root product of each box and must have the custom `Product Type`
of `Container Box`. This is so the client app can load the code to render the
box selection component. It is also used by the server backend when adding or
editing boxes.

#### Variants/Options

An option name of `Weekday` must be added with values matching the days of week
intended to for delivery which results in variant titles matching `Thursday`,
`Saturday` etc. This is how the delivery day information can be passed to
Recharge.  It will not be necessary for "special" boxes that do not have a
subscription - e.g a Xmas Box.

#### Purchase Options

Purchase options in Recharge must be in **weeks** and **not** `days`. The
reason for this is that by using weeks we can define a specific weekday to make
the charge (initialized to the day the shopify order is created but updated by
the boxes app). Therefore the charge is processed - and the order created - 3
days prior to the delivery day and the customer is advised a further 3 days
before that. The email to the customer details the changes made to the box
between deliveries, namely:

* items included or excluded for the upcoming delivery
* addon items unavailable and their subscription updated
* subscriber then has 3 days to update their box prior to the order being created

**Every** item with product type of `Container Box` or `Box Produce` must have
matching available options. If boxes have both weekly (`every 1 week`) and
fortnightly (`every 2 weeks`) then **every** `Box Produce` product must also
share those options.

NB: Products can be added in bulk in the `Recharge` admin.

#### Inventory

It is best practice to maintain and inventory count of the container boxes to
enable relevant sales statistics to be generated by Shopify.

#### Video

<video class="w-100" controls poster="Shopify-1.png">
  <source src="Shopify-1.mov" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

## Box Produce

### Essential Shopify Product Settings For Box Produce

#### Product Type

These are the products that can be included both as a regular item or an add on
item and must have the custom `Product Type` of `Box Produce`. It is
used by the server backend when adding or editing products in boxes.

#### Tags

Products must be given tags, i.e. "Vege", "Fruit". In the boxes admin `Settings
-> General Settings` is a setting titled `Available tags on box product`. These
must absolutely match the tags given to box products. Tags are used to sort box
produce for display and compiling picking and packing lists.

#### Collections

Best advice is to make these products hidden within the site by not including
them in any collection that could be listed in a catalogue visible to the end
users.

#### Variants/Options

**No** variant or options can be added to the products. Doing so may result in
unexpected results.

#### Recharge purchase options

Purchase options in Recharge must be in `weeks` and **not** `days`. The reason
for this is that by using weeks we can define a specific weekday to make the
charge. The Boxes app creates the charge 3 days prior to the delivery day and
the customer is advised a further 3 days before that.

#### Inventory

It is best practice to maintain and inventory count of the container boxes to
enable relevant sales statistics to be generated by Shopify. The boxes app
adjusts the inventory for products included in the box even if not directly
reference in the order.

#### Video

<video class="w-100" controls poster="Shopify-2.png">
  <source src="Shopify-2.mov" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>




